Update cross-platform targeting guidance to prioritize modern .NET over netstandard2.0 (#48052)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/library-guidance/cross-platform-targeting.md

---
title: Cross-platform targeting for .NET libraries
description: Best practice recommendations for creating cross-platform .NET libraries.
ms.date: 08/20/2025
---

# Cross-platform targeting

Modern .NET supports multiple operating systems and devices. It's important for .NET open-source libraries to support as many developers as possible, whether they're building an ASP.NET website hosted in Azure, or a .NET game in Unity.

When choosing target frameworks for your library, it's important to distinguish between two different goals:

> - **Cross-platform compatibility**: Your library works on different operating systems (Windows, Linux, macOS). Modern .NET versions like .NET 8+ provide excellent cross-platform support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Modern APIs and patterns**: Your library leans into the benefits of the recent versions of the .NET platform. You use modern language patterns and support advanced deployment models like Native Ahead-of-Time compilation on the CoreCLR.
```

Cross-platform is the wrong emphasis here - all TFMs are reasonable in that regard. Instead, newer TFMs let you lean in to more modern features of the .NET platform itself, not necessarily _the target OS platform_.

> [!TIP]
> The .NET team offers a [Platform compatibility analyzer](../analyzers/platform-compat-analyzer.md) to help you discover possible issues.

> ✔️ DO start with including a `net6.0` target or later for new libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
✔️ DO start with including a `net8.0` target or later for new libraries.
```

let's use the oldest in support version as a baseline here.
